Curcumin is a botanical with anti-tumor and immunomodulatory properties. We hypothesized that curcumin supplementation might influence inflammatory biomarker levels in endometrial carcinoma (EC). In this open-label, non-randomized phase 2 study (NCT02017353), seven EC patients consumed 2 g/day Curcumin Phytosome (CP) orally for 2 weeks. Blood was taken at baseline, days 1, 7, 14, and 21. The following analytes were measured: curcuminoids and metabolites, 56 inflammatory biomarkers, COX-2, frequencies of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, dendritic cells and NK cells, expression of MHC molecules on leukocytes and monocytes and activation/memory status of T cells. Patients completed quality of life (QoL) questionnaires at baseline and end of treatment. Curcumin metabolites were detectable in plasma upon CP intake. CP downregulated MHC expression levels on leukocytes (P = 0.0313), the frequency of monocytes (P = 0.0114) and ICOS expression by CD8+ T cells (P = 0.0002). However, CP upregulated CD69 levels on CD16− NK cells (P = 0.0313). No differences were observed regarding inflammatory biomarkers, frequencies of other immune cell types, T cell activation and COX-2 expression. A non-significant trend to improved QoL was observed. Overall, CP-induced immunomodulatory effects in EC were modest without significant QoL changes. Given the small population and the observed variability in inter-patient biomarker levels, more research is necessary to explore whether benefits of CP can be obtained in EC by different supplementation regimens.
Chondrosarcoma, a rare bone sarcoma arising from transformed chondrocytes, is treated primarily with surgical resection. For non-resectable chondrosarcomas chemo- and radiotherapy are largely ineffective for the most common subtypes of the disease, therefore new treatment options are urgently needed.
Clinical research in OS is hampered by a limited pipeline of new agents. Drug repurposing, an alternative development pathway that seeks to reuse existing drugs as the source of new treatment options, represents an interesting opportunity to solve this issue. The drug repurposing strategy utilises existing data on safety, dosing and clinical experience.
Our goal was to list existing drugs, including non-cancer drugs, active against chondrosarcoma to prioritize future research and trials.
